# tap-gong

`tap-gong` is a Singer tap for [Gong.io](https://gong.io).
It is built with the Meltano [SDK](https://gitlab.com/meltano/sdk) for Singer Taps.

## Configuration

### Accepted Config Options

The Gong tap accepts the following configuration options:

- `access_key`: An API access key generated in Gong.
- `access_key_secret`: The secret for the access key.
- `start_date`: The beginning date from which to start searching calls. Default is python min date.
- `end_date`: The end date for searching calls. Default is current date.

### ** NOTE ** ###

`start_date` and `end_date` are used in filter clause to make gong API calls. As of today, different API endpoints
have different requirements for filter dates. For example,

**Calls endpoints:** for calls endpoints, filter dates are optional and uses date-time format 
(e.g., '2018-02-18T02:30:00-07:00' or '2018-02-18T08:00:00Z', where Z stands for UTC). If not provided, 
all available call records are returned. 

**Stats endpoints:** for stats endpoints filter dates are mandatory and accepts date format (YYYY-MM-DD). 
`start_date` must be less than `end_date` and `end_date` cannot be greater than current date for stats endpoints.
`tap-gong` uses python min date for `start_date` and current date for `end_date` if filter dates are not provided.
It also adjusts `start_date` by reducing one day if same date is provided for `start_date` and `end_date`.

Please refer to the [Gong API documentation](https://app.gong.io/settings/api/documentation) for more details.

A full list of supported settings and capabilities for this
tap is available by running:

```bash
tap-gong --about
```

### Source Authentication and Authorization

Gong API currently supports authentication Basic and OAuth authentication mechanism. This version of `tap-gong` currently supports only Basic authentication mechanism.

Credentials can be generated by following the instructions in the [Gong API documentation](https://app.gong.io/settings/api/documentation#overview).

## Usage

You can easily run `tap-gong` by itself or in a pipeline using, for example, [Meltano](www.meltano.com).

### Executing the Tap Directly

```bash
tap-gong --version
tap-gong --help
tap-gong --config CONFIG --discover > ./catalog.json
```

## Developer Resources


### Initialize your Development Environment

This project uses a `pyproject.toml` to define its requirements. To install a new
virtual environment with Poetry, run:

```bash
poetry install
```

### Create and Run Tests

Create tests within the `tap_gong/tests` subfolder and
  then run:

```bash
poetry run pytest
```

You can also test the `tap-gong` CLI interface directly using `poetry run`:

```bash
poetry run tap-gong --help
```

### SDK Dev Guide

See the [dev guide](https://sdk.meltano.com/en/latest/dev_guide.html) for more instructions on how to use the SDK to 
develop your own taps and targets.
